LEWISCLA.SHP
Lewis & Clark Expedition:
Route of the Corps of Discovery, 1804-1806

ESRI Schools and Libraries Program
Redlands, CA 
(c) 1998
------------------------------------

Overview: 
This geographic data file presents line data for 31 segments of the Lewis & Clark's 
expedition route. These reflect important starting and stopping locations as well as 
sites where key expedition events occurred.

Projection:
Decimal degree.

Scale:
It is recommended that this data file be used at scale no lower than 1:2,000,000.

Source: 
ESRI staff researched the locational information for this shape file using a number of 
books, maps, and related documents. Principal among these were: Undaunted Courage, 
Stephen Ambrose; Lewis & Clark: The Journey of the Corps of Discovery, Dayton Duncan 
and Ken Burns; Atlas of Westward Expansion, Alan Wexler and Molly Braun; and The Shaping 
of America-Continental America 1800-1867, D.W. Meinig.

With these as sources and other vector layers (principally river and stream data from the 
EPA's BASINS program) as indicators and guides, ESRI staff used ArcView's theme creation 
and editing tools to fashion this historical shape file.

To map this data item with ArcView: 

1.	At the PROJECT window, open a NEW VIEW or use an existing VIEW in your project.
2.	In the VIEW, click the ADD THEME button.
3.	In the subsequent window, navigate to where the LEWISCLA.SHP file is located; 
	click OK.
4.	Click the checkbox next to the theme name LEWISCLA.SHP in your view.        
5.	If you began with a NEW VIEW, add other themes to provide a North American context 
	to our display. For instance, using the ArcVoyager data, click the ADD THEME button,
	navigate to VOYAGER\DATA\GEO\NAMERICA directory, and select Canadian Provinces 
	(CANADA.SHP) and Mexican states (MEXICO.SHP) and from VOYAGER\DATA\GEO\US select 
	U.S. states (US_STATE.SHP). Add other layers to build on the story such as rivers, 
	lakes, cities, and other supportive layers.
6.  	Use the LEGEND EDITOR to reclassify the data.

Fields Names:

SHAPE		Describes vector shape as point, line, or polygon. 
EXPED_NUM	Identifies the expedition segment number, which runs in sequential order to 
		the west coast. The return route splinters as Lewis and Clark decide to 
		explore new lands. Also, the Corps retraces its steps along major segments 
		of the route. For these reasons, the expedition segment numbers can not 
		provide a sequential west to east flow.
EXPED_SEG	Names the expedition segment, generally with a starting and ending point 
		reading from east to west. Since a good number of segments are both 
		westbound and eastbound, in eastbound situations the expedition segment 
		names should be read from right to left.
WESTBOUND	Identifies this segment as a westbound segment YES or NO.
WEST_DA		Dates or approximate dates on which the Corps of Discovery explored this 
		area in its westbound expedition.
WEST_XPL	Identifies commanding members of the Corps of Discovery associated with 
		this westbound expedition segment.
EASTBOUND	Identifies this segment as an eastbound segment YES or NO.
EAST_DATE	Dates or approximate dates on which the Corps of Discovery explored this 
		area in its eastbound expedition.
EAST_XPLOR	Identifies commanding members of the Corps of Discovery associated with 
		this eastbound expedition segment.

